Initial commit for COOP+COEP article (#2545)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/blog/coop-coep/index.md

---
title: Making your website "cross-origin isolated" using COOP and COEP
subhead: >
  Use COOP+COEP to set up cross-origin isolated environment and enable powerful
  features like `SharedArrayBuffer`, `performance.measureMemory` or JS
  Self-Profiling API.
description: >
  Some web APIs increase the risk of side-channel attacks like Spectre. To
  mitigate that risk, browsers offer an opt-in-based isolated environment called

>   cross-origin isolated. Use COOP+COEP to set up such an environment and enable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  cross-origin isolated. Use COOP and COEP to set up such an environment and enable
```

>   powerful features like `SharedArrayBuffer`, `performance.measureMemory` or JS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  powerful features like `SharedArrayBuffer`, `performance.measureMemory()` or the JS
```

  Self-Profiling API.
authors:
  - agektmr
date: 2020-04-13
updated: 2020-04-13
hero: browsing-context-group.png
tags:
  - post
  - security
---
Some web APIs increase the risk of side-channel attacks like Spectre. To 
mitigate that risk, browsers offer an opt-in-based isolated environment called 
cross-origin isolated. With a cross-origin isolated state, the webpage will be 
able to use privileged features including:

* [`SharedArrayBuffer`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/SharedArrayBuffer)
  (required for WebAssembly Threads)

> * [`performance.measureMemory`](https://github.com/WICG/performance-measure-memory)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [`performance.measureMemory()`](https://github.com/WICG/performance-measure-memory)
```

The cross-origin isolated state also prevents modifications of 
`document.domain`. (Being able to alter `document.domain` allows 
communication between same-sites and has been considered a loophole in the 
same-origin policy.)

{% Aside 'caution' %}
These powerful features and the prevention of `document.domain` modification 
are not yet enabled in Chrome as of version 83. We'll update this post as they 
become available.
{% endAside %}

To opt in to a cross-origin isolated state, you need to send the following two 
HTTP headers on the main document:

```http
Cross-Origin-Embedder-Policy: require-corp
Cross-Origin-Opener-Policy: same-origin
```

These headers instruct the browser to block loading of resources or iframes 
which haven't opted into being loaded by cross-origin documents, and prevent 
cross-origin windows from directly interacting with your document. This also 
means those resources being loaded cross-origin require opt-ins.

You can determine whether a web page is in a cross-origin isolated state by 
examining `self.crossOriginIsolated`. (This works on Firefox but has yet to be 
implemented in Chrome).

> This article shows how to use these new headers. In a follow-up article provide 
> more background and context.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This article shows how to use these new headers. In a follow-up article I will
provide more background and context.
```

{% Aside %}
This article is aimed at those who would like to get their websites ready for 

> using `SharedArrayBuffer`, WebAssembly Threads, `performance.measureMemory`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
using `SharedArrayBuffer`, WebAssembly Threads, `performance.measureMemory()`
```

or the JS Self-Profiling API in a more robust manner across browser 
platforms.
{% endAside %}

{% Aside 'key-term' %}

> This article will use many similar-sounding terminologies. To make things 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This article uses many similar-sounding terminologies. To make things 
```

> clearer, let's enumerate them first:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
clearer, let's define them first:
```

* [COEP: Cross Origin Embedder 
  Policy](https://wicg.github.io/cross-origin-embedder-policy/)
* [COOP: Cross Origin Opener 
  Policy](https://github.com/whatwg/html/pull/5334/files)
* [CORP: Cross Origin Resource 
  Policy](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/HTTP/Cross-Origin_Resource_Policy_(CORP))
* [CORS: Cross Origin Resource 
  Sharing](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/HTTP/CORS)
* [CORB: Cross Origin Read 
  Blocking](https://www.chromium.org/Home/chromium-security/corb-for-developers)
{% endAside %}

## Deploy COOP and COEP to make your website cross-origin isolated
### Integrate COOP and COEP
#### 1. Set the `Cross-Origin-Opener-Policy: same-origin` header on the top-level document

> By enabling COOP (Cross Origin Opener Policy) on a top-level document, windows 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By enabling COOP on a top-level document, windows 
```

Reviewer: You've already defined this, so you don't need to do it again. 

For future reference, the standard way of doing this in text is:
> Cross Origin Opener Policy (COOP)
This is the reverse of what you've done.

with the same origin, and windows opened from the document, will have a separate 
browsing context group unless they are in the same origin with the same COOP 
setting. Thus, isolation is enforced for opened windows.

A browsing context group is a group of tabs, windows or iframes which share the
same context. For example, if a website (`https://a.example`) opens a popup
window (`https://b.example`), the opener window and the popup window share the
same browsing context and they have access to each other via DOM APIs such as
`window.opener`.

![Browsing Context Group](browsing-context-group.png)

As of Chrome 83, DevTools support is not yet available for COOP. However, you
can examine `window.opener === null` from the opened window, or
`openedWindow.closed === true` from the opener window to determine if they are
in separate browsing context groups.

{% Aside 'codelab' %}
[See the impact of different COOP 
params](https://first-party-test.glitch.me/coop).
{% endAside %}

#### 2. Ensure resources have CORP or CORS enabled

> Make sure that all resources in the page are loaded with CORP (Cross Origin 
> Resource Policy) or CORS (Cross Origin Resource Sharing) HTTP headers. This step 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure that all resources in the page are loaded with CORP or CORS
HTTP headers. This step 
```

  origin**, set the `Cross-Origin-Resource-Policy: same-site` header.
* If the resource is **loaded from cross origin(s) under your control**, set the 
  `Cross-Origin-Resource-Policy: cross-origin` header if possible. 
* For cross origin resources that you have no control over:
    * Use the `crossorigin` attribute in the loading HTML tag if the resource is
      served with CORS.
    * Ask the owner of the resource to support either CORS or CORP.
* For iframes, use CORP and COEP headers as follows: 
  `Cross-Origin-Resource-Policy: same-origin` and `Cross-Origin-Embedder-Policy: 
  require-corp`.

{% Aside 'key-term' %}
It's important that you understand the difference between "same-site" and 
"same-origin". Learn about the difference at "[Understanding same-site and 
same-origin](/same-site-same-origin)".
{% endAside %}

#### 3. Use the COEP Report-Only HTTP header to assess embedded resources

Before fully enabling COEP, you can do a dry run by using the
`Cross-Origin-Embedder-Policy-Report-Only` header to examine whether the policy
actually works. You will receive reports without blocking embedded content.

> Recursively apply this to all documents. for information on Report-Only HTTP

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Recursively apply this to all documents. For information on the Report-Only HTTP
```

header, see [Observe issues using the Reporting
API](#observe-issues-using-the-reporting-api).

#### 4. Enable COEP

Once you've confirmed that everything works, and that all resources can be 
successfully loaded, apply the `Cross-Origin-Embedder-Policy: require-corp` HTTP 
header to all documents including those that are embedded via iframes.

{% Aside 'codelab' %}
[See the impact of different COEP / CORP 
parameters](https://first-party-test.glitch.me/coep).
{% endAside %}

### Determine whether isolation succeeded with `self.crossOriginIsolated`

> `self.crossOriginIsolated` returns `true` when the web page is in a 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `self.crossOriginIsolated` property returns `true` when the web page is in a 
```

Reviewer: This is how you avoid starting a sentence with a lower case letter.

cross-origin isolated state and all resources and windows are isolated within 
the same browsing context group. You can use this API to determine whether you 
have successfully isolated the browsing context group and gained access to 

> powerful features like `performance.measureMemory`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
powerful features like `performance.measureMemory()`.
```

Reviewer: FYI, method names should always include parentheses.

{% Aside 'caution' %}

> [`self.crossOriginIsolated`](https://www.chromestatus.com/feature/5953286387531776)
> is still under development and not available yet in Chrome as of version 83.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [`self.crossOriginIsolated`](https://www.chromestatus.com/feature/5953286387531776)
property is still under development and not available yet in Chrome as of version 83.
```

{% endAside %}

### Debug issues using Chrome DevTools

For resources that are rendered on the screen such as images, it's fairly easy 

> to detect COEP issues because the request will be blocked and the user 
> experience will be visually broken. However, for resources that don't 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to detect COEP issues because the request will be blocked and the page will
indicate a missing image. However, for resources that don't 
```

necessarily have a visual impact, such as scripts or styles, COEP issues might 

> go unnoticed. For those, we recommend using the DevTools Network panel. If 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
go unnoticed. For those, use the DevTools Network panel. If 
```

Reviewer: 'We' and 'our' are disallowed by the web.dev style guide.

there's an issue with COEP, you should see 
`(blocked:NotSameOriginAfterDefaultedToSameOriginByCoep)` in the "Status" 
column.  
![Debugging COEP in DevTools 1](devtools1.png)

You can then click the entry to see more details.   
![Debugging COEP in DevTools 2](devtools2.png)

{% Aside %}

> Note: While COEP debugging is already available, COOP debugging in Chrome 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While COEP debugging is already available, COOP debugging in Chrome 
```

Reviewer: The "Aside" macro handles this.

DevTools is still [being worked 
on](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/chromium/issues/detail?id=1051466).
{% endAside %}

### Observe issues using the Reporting API

The [Reporting 
API](https://developers.google.com/web/updates/2018/09/reportingapi) is another 
mechanism through which you can detect various issues. You can configure the 
Reporting API to instruct your users' browser to send a report whenever COEP 

> blocks the loading of a resource. Chrome supports the `Report-To` header since 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
blocks the loading of a resource. Chrome has supported the `Report-To` header since 
```

version 69 for a variety of uses including COEP.

{% Aside %}
The Reporting API is undergoing transition to [a new 
](https://w3c.github.io/reporting/)version. Chrome is planning to release it 

> soon, but will leave the older API in place simultaneously for some time. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
soon, but will leave the older API in place for some time. 
```

Firefox is also [considering the new 
API](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1620573). You may want to use 
both APIs during the transition.
{% endAside %}

> To specify where the browser should send the reports, append the `Report-To`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To specify where the browser should send reports, append the `Report-To`
```

HTTP header to any document that is served with a COEP HTTP header. The
`Report-To` header also supports a few extra parameters to configure the
reports. For example:

```http
Report-To: { group: 'coep_rollout_1', max_age: 86400, endpoints: [{ url: 'https://first-party-test.glitch.me/report'}]}
```

The parameters object has three properties:

#### `group`

> This allows you to name your various reporting endpoints. Use these names to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `group` property names your various reporting endpoints. Use these names to
```

direct a subset of your reports. For instance, in the
`Cross-Origin-Embedder-Policy` directive you can specify the relevant endpoint
by providing the group name to `report-to=`. For example:

```http
Cross-Origin-Embedder-Policy: require-corp; report-to="coep_rollout_1"
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the browser encounters this, it will cross-reference the `report-to` value
with the `group` property on the `Report-To` header to look up the endpoint.
This example cross references on `coep_rollout_1' to find the endpoint
`https://first-party-test.glitch.me/report`.

```

If you prefer to receive reports without blocking any embedded content, use 
`Cross-Origin-Embedder-Policy-Report-Only` instead of 
`Cross-Origin-Embedder-Policy`. For example:

```http
Cross-Origin-Embedder-Policy-Report-Only: require-corp; report-to="coep_rollout_1"
```

By doing this, when the browser detects cross origin resources that don't have 
CORP or CORS, it sends a report using the Reporting API without actually 
blocking those resources.

#### `max_age`

> Specify the time after which unsent reports are to be dropped (seconds). The 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `max_age` property specifies the time in seconds after which unsent reports
are to be dropped. The
```

browser doesn't send the reports right away. Instead, it transmits them 

> out-of-band whenever there aren't any other higher priority tasks. `max_age`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
out-of-band whenever there aren't any other higher priority tasks.  The
`max_age` property
```

prevents the browser from sending reports that are too stale to be useful. For 
example, `max_age: 86400` means that reports older than 24 hours will not be 
sent.

#### `endpoints`

> Specify the URLs of one or more reporting endpoints. The endpoint must accept 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `endpoints` property specifies the URLs of one or more reporting endpoints.
The endpoint must accept
```

---
title: Making your website "cross-origin isolated" using COOP and COEP
subhead: >
  Use COOP and COEP to set up a cross-origin isolated environment and enable
  powerful features like `SharedArrayBuffer`, `performance.measureMemory()` or
  the JS Self-Profiling API.
description: >
  Some web APIs increase the risk of side-channel attacks like Spectre. To
  mitigate that risk, browsers offer an opt-in-based isolated environment called
  cross-origin isolated. Use COOP and COEP to set up such an environment and
  enable powerful features like `SharedArrayBuffer`,
  `performance.measureMemory()` or the JS Self-Profiling API.
authors:
  - agektmr
date: 2020-04-13
updated: 2020-04-14

> hero: browsing-context-group.png

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

This hero image doesn't look good on web.dev/blog (it's cut off):

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4713486/79286177-a4897780-7e74-11ea-94c7-608911de3c5a.png)

Or the page itself:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4713486/79286067-4bb9df00-7e74-11ea-9566-1cbe61a3e44b.png)

I'll just remove it for now and you can add it back later. Note that the blog post won't show up on the web.dev homepage until it has a hero image.

Note also that the hero should have an alt tag. Setting the hero image dimensions to `3200px` by `960px` ensures that it looks good. See here for guidance: https://web.dev/handbook/markup-media/#hero-images

It's also possible to specify a [thumbnail](https://web.dev/handbook/markup-media/#thumbnail-images) image for web.dev/blog if you're having trouble making the hero look good across both pages.

tags:
  - post
  - security
---
Some web APIs increase the risk of side-channel attacks like Spectre. To 
mitigate that risk, browsers offer an opt-in-based isolated environment called 
cross-origin isolated. With a cross-origin isolated state, the webpage will be 
able to use privileged features including:

> * [`SharedArrayBuffer`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/SharedArrayBuffer)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [`SharedArrayBuffer`](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/SharedArrayBuffer)
```

Reviewer: This might not be the best thing to do. I'm not sure how up to date or reliable the localized versions of MDN pages are.

By enabling COOP on a top-level document, windows 
with the same origin, and windows opened from the document, will have a separate 
browsing context group unless they are in the same origin with the same COOP 
setting. Thus, isolation is enforced for opened windows.

A browsing context group is a group of tabs, windows or iframes which share the
same context. For example, if a website (`https://a.example`) opens a popup
window (`https://b.example`), the opener window and the popup window share the
same browsing context and they have access to each other via DOM APIs such as
`window.opener`.

![Browsing Context Group](browsing-context-group.png)

As of Chrome 83, DevTools support is not yet available for COOP. However, you
can examine `window.opener === null` from the opened window, or
`openedWindow.closed === true` from the opener window to determine if they are
in separate browsing context groups.

{% Aside 'codelab' %}
[See the impact of different COOP 
params](https://first-party-test.glitch.me/coop).
{% endAside %}

#### 2. Ensure resources have CORP or CORS enabled

Make sure that all resources in the page are loaded with CORP or CORS
HTTP headers. This step 

> is required for step four, enable COEP.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
is required for [step four, enabling COEP](#enable-coep).
```

Here is what you need to do depending on the nature of the resource:

* If the resource is expected to be loaded **only from the same origin**, set 
  the `Cross-Origin-Resource-Policy: same-origin` header.
* If the resource is expected to be loaded **only from the same site but cross 
  origin**, set the `Cross-Origin-Resource-Policy: same-site` header.
* If the resource is **loaded from cross origin(s) under your control**, set the 
  `Cross-Origin-Resource-Policy: cross-origin` header if possible. 
* For cross origin resources that you have no control over:
    * Use the `crossorigin` attribute in the loading HTML tag if the resource is
      served with CORS.
    * Ask the owner of the resource to support either CORS or CORP.
* For iframes, use CORP and COEP headers as follows: 
  `Cross-Origin-Resource-Policy: same-origin` and `Cross-Origin-Embedder-Policy: 
  require-corp`.

{% Aside 'key-term' %}
It's important that you understand the difference between "same-site" and 

> "same-origin". Learn about the difference at "[Understanding same-site and 
> same-origin](/same-site-same-origin)".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
"same-origin". Learn about the difference at [Understanding same-site and 
same-origin](/same-site-same-origin).
```

{% endAside %}

#### 3. Use the COEP Report-Only HTTP header to assess embedded resources

Before fully enabling COEP, you can do a dry run by using the
`Cross-Origin-Embedder-Policy-Report-Only` header to examine whether the policy
actually works. You will receive reports without blocking embedded content.
Recursively apply this to all documents. For information on the Report-Only HTTP
header, see [Observe issues using the Reporting
API](#observe-issues-using-the-reporting-api).

> #### 4. Enable COEP

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### 4. Enable COEP {: #enable-coep }
```

parameters](https://first-party-test.glitch.me/coep).
{% endAside %}

### Determine whether isolation succeeded with `self.crossOriginIsolated`

The `self.crossOriginIsolated` property returns `true` when the web page is in a 
cross-origin isolated state and all resources and windows are isolated within 
the same browsing context group. You can use this API to determine whether you 
have successfully isolated the browsing context group and gained access to 
powerful features like `performance.measureMemory()`.

{% Aside 'caution' %}
The [`self.crossOriginIsolated`](https://www.chromestatus.com/feature/5953286387531776)
property is still under development and not available yet in Chrome as of version 83.
{% endAside %}

### Debug issues using Chrome DevTools

For resources that are rendered on the screen such as images, it's fairly easy 
to detect COEP issues because the request will be blocked and the page will
indicate a missing image. However, for resources that don't 
necessarily have a visual impact, such as scripts or styles, COEP issues might 
go unnoticed. For those, use the DevTools Network panel. If 
there's an issue with COEP, you should see 

> `(blocked:NotSameOriginAfterDefaultedToSameOriginByCoep)` in the "Status" 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`(blocked:NotSameOriginAfterDefaultedToSameOriginByCoep)` in the **Status**
```

> column.  
> ![Debugging COEP in DevTools 1](devtools1.png)
> 
> You can then click the entry to see more details.   
> ![Debugging COEP in DevTools 2](devtools2.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
column.

<figure class="w-figure">
  <img class="w-screenshot-filled" src="devtools1.png" alt="COEP issues in the Status column of the Network panel.">
</figure>

You can then click the entry to see more details.

<figure class="w-figure">
  <img class="w-screenshot-filled" src="devtools2.png" alt="Details of the COEP issue are shown in the Headers tab after clicking a network resource in the Network panel.">
</figure>
```

@agektmr & @jpmedley please make the image `alt` descriptions more descriptive next time. My general approach is to just describe the exact UI that's shown in the screenshot in detail. The DevTools UI is starting to become accessible so there might legitimately be interest from people with low-vision on how to use DevTools to debug this problem.

{% Aside %}
The Reporting API is undergoing transition to [a new 
](https://w3c.github.io/reporting/)version. Chrome is planning to release it 
soon, but will leave the older API in place for some time. 
Firefox is also [considering the new 
API](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1620573). You may want to use 
both APIs during the transition.
{% endAside %}

To specify where the browser should send reports, append the `Report-To`
HTTP header to any document that is served with a COEP HTTP header. The
`Report-To` header also supports a few extra parameters to configure the
reports. For example:

```http
Report-To: { group: 'coep_rollout_1', max_age: 86400, endpoints: [{ url: 'https://first-party-test.glitch.me/report'}]}
```

The parameters object has three properties:

#### `group`

The `group` property names your various reporting endpoints. Use these names to
direct a subset of your reports. For instance, in the
`Cross-Origin-Embedder-Policy` directive you can specify the relevant endpoint
by providing the group name to `report-to=`. For example:

```http
Cross-Origin-Embedder-Policy: require-corp; report-to="coep_rollout_1"
```

> When the browser encounters this, it will cross-reference the `report-to` value

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the browser encounters this, it will cross reference the `report-to` value
```

with the `group` property on the `Report-To` header to look up the endpoint.
This example cross references on `coep_rollout_1` to find the endpoint
`https://first-party-test.glitch.me/report`.

If you prefer to receive reports without blocking any embedded content, use 
`Cross-Origin-Embedder-Policy-Report-Only` instead of 
`Cross-Origin-Embedder-Policy`. For example:

```http
Cross-Origin-Embedder-Policy-Report-Only: require-corp; report-to="coep_rollout_1"
```

By doing this, when the browser detects cross origin resources that don't have 
CORP or CORS, it sends a report using the Reporting API without actually 
blocking those resources.

#### `max_age`

The `max_age` property specifies the time in seconds after which unsent reports

> are to be dropped (seconds). The browser doesn't send the reports right away.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
are to be dropped. The browser doesn't send the reports right away.
```

Reviewer: "Seconds is already mentioned previously in the sentence."

Instead, it transmits them out-of-band whenever there aren't any other higher
priority tasks. The `max_age` prevents the browser from sending reports that are
too stale to be useful. For example, `max_age: 86400` means that reports older

> than 24 hours will not be sent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
than twenty-four hours will not be sent.
```

---
title: Making your website "cross-origin isolated" using COOP and COEP
subhead: >
  Use COOP and COEP to set up a cross-origin isolated environment and enable
  powerful features like `SharedArrayBuffer`, `performance.measureMemory()` or
  the JS Self-Profiling API.
description: >
  Some web APIs increase the risk of side-channel attacks like Spectre. To
  mitigate that risk, browsers offer an opt-in-based isolated environment called
  cross-origin isolated. Use COOP and COEP to set up such an environment and
  enable powerful features like `SharedArrayBuffer`,
  `performance.measureMemory()` or the JS Self-Profiling API.
authors:
  - agektmr
hero: hero.png
date: 2020-04-13
updated: 2020-04-14
tags:
  - post
  - security
---
Some web APIs increase the risk of side-channel attacks like Spectre. To 
mitigate that risk, browsers offer an opt-in-based isolated environment called 
cross-origin isolated. With a cross-origin isolated state, the webpage will be 
able to use privileged features including:

> * [`SharedArrayBuffer`](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/SharedArrayBuffer)

Reviewer 3: Please check this messaging with @lutzvahl

Reviewer 4: To name SABs is fine for me as we're not talking about Chrome.  But we might remove "SharedArrayBuffer (required for WebAssembly Threads)" from the [Conclusion](https://deploy-preview-2545--web-dev-staging.netlify.com/coop-coep/#conclusion) section as we're talking about upcoming Chrome releases. @natorion WDYT?

Author: Removed the mention about SharedArrayBuffer at the conclusion part.

  (required for WebAssembly Threads)
* [`performance.measureMemory()`](/monitor-total-page-memory-usage/)

> * [JS Self-Profiling API](https://wicg.github.io/js-self-profiling/)

Reviewer 3: missing a `

Author: This is intentional as JS Self-Profiling API is not a term from code.

The cross-origin isolated state also prevents modifications of 
`document.domain`. (Being able to alter `document.domain` allows 

> communication between same-sites and has been considered a loophole in the 

Reviewer 5: I don't think "same-sites" is a thing. Replace with "same-site documents"?

Reviewer: +1

same-origin policy.)

{% Aside 'caution' %}
These powerful features and the prevention of `document.domain` modification 
are not yet enabled in Chrome as of version 83. We'll update this post as they 
become available.
{% endAside %}

To opt in to a cross-origin isolated state, you need to send the following two 
HTTP headers on the main document:

```http
Cross-Origin-Embedder-Policy: require-corp
Cross-Origin-Opener-Policy: same-origin
```

These headers instruct the browser to block loading of resources or iframes 
which haven't opted into being loaded by cross-origin documents, and prevent 
cross-origin windows from directly interacting with your document. This also 
means those resources being loaded cross-origin require opt-ins.

You can determine whether a web page is in a cross-origin isolated state by 

> examining `self.crossOriginIsolated`. (This works on Firefox but has yet to be 

Reviewer 3: I guess it would make sense to link to https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/WindowOrWorkerGlobalScope/crossOriginIsolated.

* [CORP: Cross Origin Resource 
  Policy](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/HTTP/Cross-Origin_Resource_Policy_(CORP))
* [CORS: Cross Origin Resource 
  Sharing](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/HTTP/CORS)
* [CORB: Cross Origin Read 
  Blocking](https://www.chromium.org/Home/chromium-security/corb-for-developers)
{% endAside %}

## Deploy COOP and COEP to make your website cross-origin isolated
### Integrate COOP and COEP
#### 1. Set the `Cross-Origin-Opener-Policy: same-origin` header on the top-level document

By enabling COOP on a top-level document, windows 
with the same origin, and windows opened from the document, will have a separate 
browsing context group unless they are in the same origin with the same COOP 
setting. Thus, isolation is enforced for opened windows.

A browsing context group is a group of tabs, windows or iframes which share the
same context. For example, if a website (`https://a.example`) opens a popup
window (`https://b.example`), the opener window and the popup window share the
same browsing context and they have access to each other via DOM APIs such as
`window.opener`.

![Browsing Context Group](browsing-context-group.png)

> As of Chrome 83, DevTools support is not yet available for COOP. However, you

Reviewer 3: "... dedicated DevTools support is not ..." is probably a better and true wording, as window.opener===null for example can be checked via DevTools' console as a debugging help.

can examine `window.opener === null` from the opened window, or
`openedWindow.closed === true` from the opener window to determine if they are
in separate browsing context groups.

{% Aside 'codelab' %}

> [See the impact of different COOP 

Reviewer 3: FYI: I think I tried all combinations in there and always the popup says that the pages are running in the same browsing context.

Author: Did you try it with Chrome 83+? On my side using Chrome Canary, if I set `same-origin` at the step 1, I get the "different browser context".

Reviewer 3: Oops. My bad. On Canary it works. Sorry.

* For iframes, use CORP and COEP headers as follows: 
  `Cross-Origin-Resource-Policy: same-origin` and `Cross-Origin-Embedder-Policy: 
  require-corp`.

{% Aside 'key-term' %}
It's important that you understand the difference between "same-site" and 
"same-origin". Learn about the difference at [Understanding same-site and 
same-origin](/same-site-same-origin).
{% endAside %}

#### 3. Use the COEP Report-Only HTTP header to assess embedded resources

Before fully enabling COEP, you can do a dry run by using the
`Cross-Origin-Embedder-Policy-Report-Only` header to examine whether the policy
actually works. You will receive reports without blocking embedded content.
Recursively apply this to all documents. For information on the Report-Only HTTP
header, see [Observe issues using the Reporting
API](#observe-issues-using-the-reporting-api).

#### 4. Enable COEP {: #enable-coep }

Once you've confirmed that everything works, and that all resources can be 
successfully loaded, apply the `Cross-Origin-Embedder-Policy: require-corp` HTTP 
header to all documents including those that are embedded via iframes.

{% Aside 'codelab' %}
[See the impact of different COEP / CORP 

> parameters](https://first-party-test.glitch.me/coep).

Reviewer 3: I can set correct states and get a feedback that they are okay, but there is no feedback that something is set wrong especially for the cross origin iframe. I would have expected to see a similar result to the image: It is blocked and not loaded and it shows how Chrome would show it.

Author: I will sort it.

Author: I made some changes so it should look easier to understand.

Reviewer 3: Thanks. This made it much clearer to me!

{% endAside %}

### Determine whether isolation succeeded with `self.crossOriginIsolated`

The `self.crossOriginIsolated` property returns `true` when the web page is in a 
cross-origin isolated state and all resources and windows are isolated within 
the same browsing context group. You can use this API to determine whether you 
have successfully isolated the browsing context group and gained access to 
powerful features like `performance.measureMemory()`.

{% Aside 'caution' %}
The [`self.crossOriginIsolated`](https://www.chromestatus.com/feature/5953286387531776)
property is still under development and not available yet in Chrome as of version 83.
{% endAside %}

> ### Debug issues using Chrome DevTools

Reviewer 3: @sigurdschneider to have a look at this section.

---
title: Making your website "cross-origin isolated" using COOP and COEP
subhead: >
  Use COOP and COEP to set up a cross-origin isolated environment and enable

>   powerful features like `SharedArrayBuffer`, `performance.measureMemory()` or

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  powerful features like `SharedArrayBuffer`, `performance.measureMemory()`, and
```

  the JS Self-Profiling API.
description: >
  Some web APIs increase the risk of side-channel attacks like Spectre. To
  mitigate that risk, browsers offer an opt-in-based isolated environment called
  cross-origin isolated. Use COOP and COEP to set up such an environment and
  enable powerful features like `SharedArrayBuffer`,
  `performance.measureMemory()` or the JS Self-Profiling API.
authors:
  - agektmr

> hero: hero.png

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
hero: hero.jpg
```

date: 2020-04-13
updated: 2020-04-16
tags:
  - post
  - security
---
Some web APIs increase the risk of side-channel attacks like Spectre. To 
mitigate that risk, browsers offer an opt-in-based isolated environment called 
cross-origin isolated. With a cross-origin isolated state, the webpage will be 
able to use privileged features including:

* [`SharedArrayBuffer`](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/SharedArrayBuffer)
  (required for WebAssembly Threads)
* [`performance.measureMemory()`](/monitor-total-page-memory-usage/)
* [JS Self-Profiling API](https://wicg.github.io/js-self-profiling/)

The cross-origin isolated state also prevents modifications of
`document.domain`. (Being able to alter `document.domain` allows communication
between same-site documents and has been considered a loophole in the
same-origin policy.)

{% Aside 'caution' %}
These powerful features and the prevention of `document.domain` modification 
are not yet enabled in Chrome as of version 83. We'll update this post as they 
become available.
{% endAside %}

> To opt in to a cross-origin isolated state, you need to send the following two 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To opt in to a cross-origin isolated state, you need to send the following
```

Removing `two` doesn't change the meaning of the sentence and prevents the article from looking incorrect if we later add more headers but forgot to update this text.

cross-origin isolated state and all resources and windows are isolated within 
the same browsing context group. You can use this API to determine whether you 
have successfully isolated the browsing context group and gained access to 
powerful features like `performance.measureMemory()`.

{% Aside 'caution' %}
The
[`self.crossOriginIsolated`](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/WindowOrWorkerGlobalScope/crossOriginIsolated.)
property is [still under development and not available yet in Chrome as of
version 83](https://www.chromestatus.com/feature/5953286387531776).
{% endAside %}

### Debug issues using Chrome DevTools

For resources that are rendered on the screen such as images, it's fairly easy 
to detect COEP issues because the request will be blocked and the page will
indicate a missing image. However, for resources that don't 
necessarily have a visual impact, such as scripts or styles, COEP issues might 
go unnoticed. For those, use the DevTools Network panel. If 
there's an issue with COEP, you should see 
`(blocked:NotSameOriginAfterDefaultedToSameOriginByCoep)` in the **Status**
column.

<figure class="w-figure">

>   <img class="w-screenshot-filled" src="devtools1.jpg" alt="COEP issues in the Status column of the Network panel.">

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  <img class="w-screenshot w-screenshot-filled" src="devtools1.jpg" alt="COEP issues in the Status column of the Network panel.">
```

</figure>

You can then click the entry to see more details.

<figure class="w-figure">

>   <img class="w-screenshot-filled" src="devtools2.jpg" alt="Details of the COEP issue are shown in the Headers tab after clicking a network resource in the Network panel.">

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  <img class="w-screenshot w-screenshot-filled" src="devtools2.jpg" alt="Details of the COEP issue are shown in the Headers tab after clicking a network resource in the Network panel.">
```

```

By doing this, when the browser detects cross origin resources that don't have 
CORP or CORS, it sends a report using the Reporting API without actually 
blocking those resources.

#### `max_age`

The `max_age` property specifies the time in seconds after which unsent reports
are to be dropped. The browser doesn't send the reports right away.
Instead, it transmits them out-of-band whenever there aren't any other higher
priority tasks. The `max_age` prevents the browser from sending reports that are
too stale to be useful. For example, `max_age: 86400` means that reports older
than twenty-four hours will not be sent.

#### `endpoints`

The `endpoints` property specifies the URLs of one or more reporting endpoints.
The endpoint must accept CORS if it's hosted on a different origin. The browser
will send reports with a Content-Type of `application/reports+json`.

An example payload looks like this:

```json
[{  
  age: 0,  
  body: {  
    'blocked-url': 'https://third-party-test.glitch.me/check.svg',  
    type: 'corp'  
  },  
  type: 'coep',  
  url: 'https://first-party-test.glitch.me/?coep=require-corp',  

>   ...  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  …
```
